# namer-hackathon
# Generate a Podcast from the AWS whats new RSS Feed

This repo contains an AWS SAM definition and a sample streamlit app to play your podcast.

## Pre-Reqs

1. AWS CLI
2. AWS SAM CLI   see https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/install-sam-cli.html
3. Python 3.11 (If using Amazon Linux 2 on Cloud9 which only has support for 3.7 and 3.8, you can un the included `updatePython.sh` script to install)
* Note: If you use AWS Cloud9, steps 2, and 3 above are already preinstalled.
4. IAM access to Bedrock.  
5. If using Cloud9 in Isengard, you need to attach an IAM role to the EC2 instance with permissions to Bedrock (and other services). THen go to AWS Settings-->Credentials and turn off AWS Managed Temp Credentials.  You may need to stop/start the instance to apply.

## Instructions

1. Run `setup.sh` to install additional prerequisites including the btot3 SDK which includes Bedrock.
2. Navigate to the SAM folder `cd SAM`
3. Build the SAM package `sam build`
4. Deploy the package.`sam deploy --guided`  Give your stack a name, and use the region where your SageMaker Endpoint is deployed.  Use the defaults for the rest of the options.
5. The following resources will be deployed: AWS Step Functions State Machine, AWS S3 Bucket, 7 Lambda functions, various IAM roles and policies.
6. Navigate to the deployed state machine and choose **New Execution**
7. Open the included `sampleStepFunctionInput.json` file, update the following fields, and save:
* Replace the `bucket` with the bucket name deployed by the SAM application
*  Replace `llmEndpoint` with your Bedrock endpoint.
*  Replace `numDays` with the number of days from today that you want to process from the RSS feed.
*  `bedrockRgion` should be the region that cooresponds to the endpoint above
*  `modelID` is the identifier of the Bedrock model, ex. `anthropic.claude-v2`
8. Execute the Step Function from the command line: `aws stepfunctions start-execution --state-machine-arn <YOUR STATE MACHINE ARN> --input "$(jq -R . sampleStepFunctionInput.json --raw-output)"`
9. Depending on the number of new announcements in the time range that you specified in `numDays` and your SageMaker Endpoint instance type, execution can take anywhere from 5-15 minutes or longer.
10. Monitor the execution by running the command: `aws stepfunctions describe-execution --execution-arn <YOUR EXECUTION ARN>`.  Get the Execution ARN from the output of Step 7.
11. Once complete, grab the `runID` and `bucket name` from the output of Step 9.  You will need this if you want to run the Streamlit app below.

### Listen to your podcast
You have 2 options:
1. Download the **podcast.mp3** file from the s3 bucket
2. Run the included Streamlit app `sampleApp.py`

To run the Streamlit app, do the following:
1. In your terminal, open `sampleApp.py`
2. Replace `bucketName` with your s3 bucket
3. Replace `runId` with the `UUID` you copied earlier
4. Save and close
5. Run `streamlit run ./sampleApp.py`
6. Open the URL in your browser.  *If using Cloud9, you must have your EC2 instance in a public subnet with a public IP, and a Security Group rule allow traffic to the Streamlit port (usually 8501)*


### Cleanup

1.Empty the S3 bucket or you will get an error when you delete the SAM application
2. `aws sam delete --stack-name <your stack name here>`



### Explore the objects in the s3 bucket.
* processed/ - Contains the metadata and scraped content from each RSS feed item, populated by the `processRSS` function.
* dialogs/ - Contains the outputs from the LLM generated by the `generateDialog` function for each RSS feed item.
* topic_audio/ - Contains the individual mp3 objects for each RSS feed item, generated by Amazon Polly, from the `generateTopicAudio` function.
* transition_audio/ - Contains the individual mp3 objects for the transitions between topic categories, generated by the `generateTransitions` function.
* other_audio/ - Contains the individual mp3 objects for the Intro and Outro, generated by the `generateIntro` and `generateOutro` functions.
* playlist.json - Sequenced manifest of each mp3 object.  Output by the `generatePlaylist` function.  Used by the Streamlit app to provide titles and links.
* podcast.mp3 - Final mp3 object combining all individual mp3's, output by the `generatePlaylist` fucntion.